hey do you need business or marketing
career coaches well let me share with
you why marketers come to me for
coaching and what you can do yourself if
you face similar challenges based on my
experience working with B2B marketers
senior marketing directors Chief
marketing officers and the VPS of
marketing in midsize companies and
Enterprises here are the three most
common challenges they encounter that
may benefit from professional coaching
so if you run into simulate issues trust
me you are not alone and don't ever feel
that way that you are alone because all
of us have similar
challenges so this is probably the most
common request based on my experience of
coaching they can keep up with various
digital marketing disciplines many
marketers don't feel that they are fully
equipped to manage a big team with a mix
of marketing disciplines such as SEO pay
search sales enablement social media
events and the pay media
Etc they don't feel like they know
enough of each field to ask the right
questions I totally get that I had to
learn the ins and outs of digital
marketing SEO website social media and
the whole night yard Parts I have
marketers come to me and ask me to help
them understand the lay of digital
marketing land my job is to help them
grasp the overall digital marketing
landscape how everything works together
from LinkedIn payouts down to the
website registration down to a cim
including the conversion of marketing
qualified leads to a sales qualified
leads most of marketing professionals
who come to me with this specific
request are usually very quick Learners
they just need someone to tell them how
to connect different digital thoughts
that's it they can run with it I tell
them my job is to make them dangerous
enough to ask the right questions in
each marketing discipline and they
really like
that if you want to do this on your own
without coaching you can
tag your agency Freelancers and prompt
them to educate you about specific
marketing
disciplines most of them are happy to
share their insights trust me they want
to help you to help
them the second most common request I
receive for coaching is H what should I
do when I grow up in other words what is
my next career
move some of them want to move up the
letter some of them want to move out of
Marketing entirely I don't blame them
been doing marketing for like over 15
years I know it's kind of like a sweat
shop sometimes especially when you are
in the grind do you feel
[Laughter]
that I have worked with several
marketers encourage them to move to
product marketing even sales depending
on their personality strength the skill
sets they possess again you can do this
on your own as
well talk to as many people as possible
get a sense of what they do and then
think about it if this is something that
you can do and you enjoy doing you don't
need to stay marketing the world is your
oyster right you can do
this the third reason for marketing
professionals to get a coach is to have
time to discuss challenges to have a
sound board even just some onetoone time
to think things
through I have clients come to me just
to help them think so they have to deal
with organization restructuring they
have to deal with some technical
challenges and even answering some
difficult questions from their
management so my job is usually to guide
them I ask questions to guide the think
that's it and you can do that on your
own as well the key is to step away from
your desk and computer go somewhere else
to quiet your mind so you can start
thinking or you can just talk to your
Mentor or Confidant directly through
talking you can somehow address some of
the challenges that you have as
well all the common challenges I will
was asked to help with
include the need to rebalance in-house
versus outsourc
hiring main marketing manager needs to
determine what talent they want to keep
in house and also what to
Outsource that requires effective budget
and resource
allocation and it is actually a hard
call sometimes and it's really a
tradeoff discussion that you have to
think through and the pros and cons in
terms of what talent to keep it inhouse
and what to
Outsource another common challenge
is highly complex marketing plans and
strategies some Enterprises are huge so
it's very hard to build a very solid and
crisp marketing plan because there are
many moving pieces and also many cooks
in the
kitchen so there are senior marketing
directors and also individual
contributors who will reach out to me
and ask me to help them to make sense of
the ambiguous big plan they receive or
lack
thereof my job is to actually help them
craft their own
plans when the big plan is not
ready you can do that actually takes a
little bit of time
I also have more DIY tips that you can
actually read through in the blog post
below so check it out a good coach or a
good B2B marketing coach specifically
can help you see something that you
might have missed or will help Co out
the blind spots that you can't
see seems I have been a marketing
manager myself for a long period of time
I completely understand the challenge
marketers encounter in the copit world
being there seeing it I
know I also use coaches myself I have a
writing coach who helps me to be a
better writer I have a live coach that I
go to when I have a hard time making
personal or career-based
decisions so if you face any of these
challenges don't
friend take your time to think through
talk to your colleagues and your man
managers get help from agencies and
Freelancers of yours I've coached many
marketers sometimes what you need is
just one or two sessions before you know
exactly what you need to do next our
conversation can range from strategic
discussion to marketing pitching down to
technical
knoow if you still need help reach out
to me anytime take care
bye
e